# Project 1: Creating a Frontend

This project assignment is worth 600 points.

This homework is to be done as a team.

P2 is due on Gradescope Thursday, March 26, 2026 11:59pm.

### Submission

Submit [P2](https://www.gradescope.com/courses/1208559/assignments/) as a PDF file to Gradescope.

If you prepare the response in some other software (like Tex), please
export as PDF before submitting. Include your name and Andrew ID at the top of the document.

### Learning Goals


- Design and implement the front-end user interface of your startup's  application.
- Use a Large Language Model (LLM) to generate software artifacts, including user stories, UI components, and application code.
- Use an LLM to generate human-verifiable documentation (wireframes and development specifications) that describe the behavior of software artifacts produced by the LLM.
- Create machine-verifiable test cases that demonstrate that an implemented user interface correctly satisfies the intended user stories and development specification.

### 1. Project Context

In modern software engineering workflows, LLMs can generate code and interfaces very quickly. However, this creates an important challenge: **how do we verify that the generated artifacts actually implement what the designer intended?**

In this project assignment, you will:

1. Use an LLM to generate the **user stories** describing your product's application.
2. Use the LLM to generate the **UI and first version of the frontend code**.
3. Use the LLM to create machine-executable test cases (unit tests and acceptance tests) 
that show that the UI and code satisfies the requirements described in the user stories.  
4. Use the LLM to create documentation for the UI and code you have created that will
convince you and your users that you have built the product defined by your user stories.

### 2. User Stories (100 points)

In this section, you will create user stories that correspond to the primary use cases of the product. You can write the user stories by yourselves or use an LLM to write them for you.

The user stories should be customized by your understanding of the primary use cases of your startup's main product as well as the lessons you learned from your user discovery process. 

  1. The total user stories your team should write is 2 times the number of team members. If your team has 4 members, create 8 user stories. 5 members? Create 10 user stories. 6 members? Create 12 user stories. We want to ensure your project workload scales with the number of team members.
  1. Write the computed number of user stories. Make sure each user story uses the proper template:
    - As a <user\>, I want <action\> so that <benefit\>. Then add your machine and human acceptance criteria afterwards.
    - Add a one paragraph explanation of why each user story is important to the overall user experience of the application. 
    - Make sure each user story can be designed, implemented, tested, and verified in under 2 weeks. If it is too big, split it apart into separate user stories. If it is too small, merge some related user stories together.
  2. Evaluate the user stories.
     1. Use the [INVEST](https://xp123.com/invest-in-good-stories-and-smart-tasks/) framework we learned in class to evaluate each user story. 
     1. Identify ths 3 user stories that you think are most critical to the business success of the application and explain why.
     1. Identify the 3 user stories that you think will be easiest to implement and explain why.
     1. Identify the 3 user stories that you think will be easiest to test via machine-executable tests and explain why.
     1. Identify the 3 user stories that you think will be easiest for human to decide that it was implemented satisfactorily and explain why.
  3. Prioritize the user stories in order that you should implement them. Justify your implementation order.  
     1. Identify and label the "core" user story that creates the base functionality of your application. This must be designated as the first user story to be implemented.
  8. Create GitHub Issues for each user story (along with its acceptance criteria) in your team's GitHub project. Be sure to assign each user story a priority level, specify the sprint number in which it will be completed, and assign it to primary and secondary owners on your team. Turn in the GitHub Issue URL for each user story.
  9. If you used an LLM for any part of this section, please turn in a copy of the chat log or a URL to the chatlog that is accessible to all of the 17-356 instructors.


### 3. User Interfaces (100 points)

Create high-fidelity user interfaces for each of your user stories using Figma, Canva, Pencil, Bolt, or Lovable. 

<!-- Pick one user story out of the total and create 3 high-fidelity user interfaces for it that are maximally different from each other. Present these user interfaces to a classmate from another team and have that person give feedback about the components of each UI that they like the best (i.e. I like the colors in UI 1, the shapes of the buttons in UI 2, and the infromation flow in UI 3). Do not provide feedback about what you do not like. From this feedback, produce a fourth user interface for this user story that includes the well-liked components from each of the other three UIs.  -->

   1. Include all states of the interface: e.g., empty state, loading, error, success, etc.  
   2. Include enough detail about the intended graphical design in your Figma project to help a developer to implement the appropriate CSS and layout code. For example, if your design needs to relayout in a specific way when the window is stretched or zoomed, please annotate the design with the behavior you want to see.
   3. Write up the rationale for major design choices (e.g., navigation flow, component reuse, accessibility). 
   3. For each element in the UI, identify which user story(ies) required it. If it cannot be connected to a user story, the element should be removed from the interface.
   4. Be sure that the design of each user interface is compatible with all of the others, meaning it should look like one coherently designed application. This requires effective communication between all of the designers on your team as well as any LLMs you may be consulting for help.
   4. Turn in a URL to each user interface prototype (this could be in Figma, Canva, checked into GitHub, or a reference to another tool).
   5. Check in high-resolution screenshots of your user interface prototypes into your GitHub repository and turn in URLs to each pull request (PR) merging them into your main branch. Each user story's set of user interfaces should be committed to your repository in its own PR. There should be a total of 10 PRs (even if the user interfaces for each user story overlap).
   6. If you used an LLM for any part of this section, please turn in a copy of the chat log or a URL to the chatlog that is accessible to all of the 17-356 instructors.
   
 
### 4. Frontend Implementation (100 points)

Implement the user stories in code using a popular frontend framework of your choice (e.g., React, Svelte).  

   1. For each user story, create a new branch in Git. Write appropriate front end code for this user story. Update the status of the user story in your Kanban board so your teammates know what you are working on.
   2. Your implementation must: 
       1. Include responsive design for at least two screen sizes.  
       1. Ensure accessibility compliance with WCAG 2.2 and alt-text for images where appropriate.  
       1. Ensure any backend functionality or data is mocked such that the frontend functionality can be demonstrated.
   5. The core user story should be checked into your GitHub repository first. 
   6. Check in the code for each user story in its feature branch. 
   7. When all machine- and human-verifiable tests have succeeded, wrap up the commits into a pull request (PR) on GitHub and submit it. 
   8. Do a code review on the PR and iterate until your teammates are satisfied with the quality of the code.
   9. Approve the PR and merge it into main. Remmeber to keep the status of the user story up to date on your Kanban board.
   10. Turn in a URL to each user story's PR.
   11. Screen record yourself showing off the frontend implementation to a customer in a web browser or mobile device (include appropriate voiceover narration so we can follow what you're trying to show). It should display correctly at your two different screen sizes. Use the browser or mobile device's debugger to accurately set the screen size during testing. Resize the browser/mobile device window with your mouse/finger to test for proper layout logic. 
   12. Upload the screen recording to YouTube.
   13. If you used an LLM for any part of this section, please turn in a copy of the chat log or a URL to the chatlog that is accessible to all of the 17-356 instructors.


### 4. Frontend Specification (100 points)

Choose **3 user stories** and have an LLM document them into 3 separate dev specs. Each dev spec should include the following sections with enough detail that you (or someone else) could find the following information: 

  1. Identify the primary and secondary owners of the user story.
  2. Identify the date the code was merged into the main branch.
  3. Create an architecture diagram in Mermaid that also illustrates where the components of the application execute (e.g., client, server, cloud, etc.). 
  4. Create an information flow diagram in Mermaid that shows which user information and application data moves between architectural components and the direction in which they flow.
  5. Create a class diagram in Mermaid that shows the classes relevant to the user story's implemention in superclass/subclass relationships. (Don't accidentally leave any any classes or interfaces from your diagram. We're going to check.) 
  6. Create a list of all of the classes in the implementation relevant to this user story. Each class must include a list of public and private fields and methods with explanations for the purpose for each. First list the public fields and methods together, then list the private fields and methods. Each list should be grouped by concept.
  7. Provide a complete list of technologies/libraries/APIs used in your system that you aren’t writing yourself.
     1. Indicate what the technology is being used for.
     2. Indicate why that technology was picked over others.
     3. Provide a URL to source location, author, and documentation for each technology.
        1. Don’t leave out technologies like language, common libraries, or necessary tools.
     4. Do mention the required version number for each technology.
  7. List each data type that you will be storing in a database (i.e. long-term storage). Explain the purpose of each field in the database. How much storage (in bytes) will it require?
  7. Create a list of the user-visible and internally-visible effects if your frontend application:
     1. crashed its process
     2. lost all its runtime state
     3. erased all stored data
     4. noticed that some data in the database appeared corrupt
     5. remote procedure call failed
     6. client overloaded
     7. client out of RAM
     8. database out of space
     9. lost its network connectivity
     10. lost access to its database
     11. bot signs up and spams users
  8. List all Personally Identifying Information (PII) stored in long-term storage in your system. This is information about your users that could be used by an evil actor to steal their identity. 
     1. Justify why you need to keep each data item in storage.
     2. How exactly is it stored?
     3. How did the data enter your system?
     4. Through what modules, components, classes, methods, and fields did it move before entering long-term storage?
     5. Through what modules, components, classes, methods, and fields will it move after leaving long-term storage?
     6. List the people on your team who have responsibility for securing each unit of long-term storage/database.
     7. Describe your procedures for auditing routine and non-routine access to the PII data.
     8. Is the PII of a minor under the age of 18 solicited or stored by the system?
        1. Why?
        2. Does your application solicit a guardian’s permission to have that PII?
        3. What is your team’s policy for ensuring that minors' PII is not accessible by anyone convicted or suspected of child abuse?
  9. If you used an LLM for any part of this section, please turn in a copy of the chat log or a URL to the chatlog that is accessible to all of the 17-356 instructors.

### 5. Machine-Executable Unit Test Cases (100 points)

One way to evaluate whether your implementation is good enough is to test it. You will create unit tests for each class that can be executed by the computer (not an LLM) to tell you if the code meets your specifications.

Look through the source code of your frontend and identify 10 code files that contain the most core functionality that implements your frontend user stories. Only choose files that have at least 5 functions. 

Most projects that are written in Javascript or TypeScript should use the [Jest](https://jestjs.io) unit testing framework. You may use another framework, but you may not simply manually test the code. You must use a testing framework. 

First, install the test framework into your application. Create a tests/ folder and keep all of your test files there. Next, prompt an LLM to write unit tests for each function in the code file. Remember, do not ask the LLM to write all the unit tests in a single prompt. Only generate one test at a time. There must be at least one unit test for every function, but there may very well be several unit tests per function required to fully test its operation. If a mock for the backend is needed, have your test framework do it for you.

  1. [Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/mock-functions)

For example, you have a validateEmail(string address) function to test. One possible test may check whether GMail addresses are considered valid. The input address would be "realemailaddress@gmail.com" and the expected output would be the boolean "true". 

At the end, you should have one test file for each tested class. 

!!! note
    You will be graded on how well you prevent the LLM from hallucinating nonsensical test cases or creating duplicate or significantly overlapping test cases. The LLM must not generate test cases for functions and functionalities that do not exist. 

Ask the LLM to generate an npm script to setup the frontend of your application and then execute the tests with your testing framework. 

How did it go? Did every test pass? If not, use your LLM to give you a plan on how it wants to fix the bugs (ask it for three alternative fixes). Choose the bug fix you like and have the LLM make the change. Did your test case pass? Congratulations! If not, try again.

   1. Create a unit test feature in your GitHub Issues database for each class you are testing. Make sure to keep the status of this Issue up to date on your Kanban board.
   2. Once you are done generating and testing your test code, commit all of the test code to the repository.
   2. Wrap up the commits into a pull request (PR) on GitHub and submit it. 
   8. Have a teammate do a code review on your PR and iterate until they are satisfied with the quality of the test code.
   9. Approve the PR and merge it into main. Remmeber to keep the status of the user story up to date on your Kanban board.
   10. Turn in a URL to each class's unit test PR, identifying which class the PR was testing.
   13. If you used an LLM for any part of this section, please turn in a copy of the chat log or a URL to the chatlog that is accessible to all of the 17-356 instructors.


### 6. Human-Verifiable Acceptance Test Cases (100 points)

User stories are difficult to machine-verify since they require satisfying a human user. Correctness is necessary, but definitely not sufficient. You will create acceptance tests that will guide a human to evaluate the functionality of each user story and ask them to vote on whether the user story has been successfully accomplished.

For each user story that has been implemented, prompt an LLM to generate a sequence of instructions for a human user to follow using your frontend application to accomplish the action specified by the user story. Then prompt the LLM to create a 3-question survey for the user to provide feedback on whether they believe the user story has been achieved. You must decide on three metrics that will definitely show that the user is satisfied with the user story (enough that they would spend money to buy your app or service). 

1. Create a human acceptance test feature in your GitHub Issues database for each user story you are testing. Make sure to keep the status of this Issue up to date on your Kanban board as you work through this assignment.
1. For each user story, 
   1. Provide the instructions to a human user to use the action/feature specified in the user story. Describe any prerequisite actions required to get the system set up in the right configuration for the user to begin.
   1. List the three most salient metrics that will get at whether the user is satisfied. Explain why you picked these three. Remember to consult The Lean Startup and The Mom Test to help you understand the value of each metric you have chosen.
   1. List the three questions in your survey that get the user to tell you about their feelings about the user story. Watch out here. Sometimes you can't be super direct in asking because your users will distrust your motives and make fun of your question instead
      1. Example: Microsoft Windows pops up dialogs to ask "How likely are you to recommend Windows to a friend or colleague (Likert score 1-5) Please explain your score." One snarky user responded, "1 Not at all likely. I need you to understand that people don't have conversations where they randomly recommend operating systems to one another."
   1. Choose a classmate from another team in this class and ask them to try out your instructions and take the survey. Were they satisfied? If not, improve your implementation and try again. You may have the same classmate try all of your user stories.
2. Once you are done generating and testing your acceptance test procedures and surveys, commit everything to the repository.
2. Wrap up the commits into a pull request (PR) on GitHub and submit it. 
3. Have a teammate review your PR and iterate until they are satisfied with the quality of the acceptance test procedures and survey.
9. Approve the PR and merge it into main. Remmeber to keep the status of the user story up to date on your Kanban board.
10. Turn in a URL to each class's acceptance test PR, identifying which user story the PR was testing.
13. If you used an LLM for any part of this section, please turn in a copy of the chat log or a URL to the chatlog that is accessible to all of the 17-356 instructors.


   

